README.md, before:

# Basic GPU Pipeline Example

This project provides simplified examples of a GPU pipeline for educational purposes. It demonstrates the interactions between memory and the vertex shader, tiler, rasterisation and fragment shader pipeline stages and other components commonly found in GPU HW architectures. The repository now contains both a 2D triangle example and a minimal 3D cube rendered from a side perspective.

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.x
- Jupyter Notebook
- NumPy
- Matplotlib

## Installation

1. **Clone the Repository**
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/bvarbanov90/basic-gpu-pipeline-example.git
    ```
    Navigate to the project directory.
    ```bash
    cd basic-gpu-pipeline-example
    ```

2. **Create a Virtual Environment** (Optional)
    ```bash
    python -m venv venv
    ```

    Activate the virtual environment.
    - On Windows:
        ```bash
        .\venv\Scripts\Activate
        ```
    - On macOS and Linux:
        ```bash
        source venv/bin/activate
        ```

3. **Install Dependencies**
    ```bash
    pip install numpy matplotlib
    ```

## Usage

1. **Start Jupyter Notebook**
    ```bash
    jupyter notebook
    ```
    This will start the Jupyter Notebook and open a browser window. Navigate to the directory where you cloned this project.

2. **Open Notebook**
    - In the Jupyter Notebook browser window, click on `basic_2D_GPU_pipeline_example.ipynb` for the 2D triangle pipeline or `basic_3D_GPU_pipeline_example.ipynb` to explore the 3D cube example.

3. **Run Notebook**
    - You can run each cell individually by clicking on it and pressing `Shift + Enter`, or run all cells by clicking `Cell > Run All` in the menu.

4. **View Results**
    - The final cell will display the rasterized image generated by the chosen pipeline. You can also view the saved image in your local directory.

## License

This project is licensed under the Apache License 2.0 - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

Handle grayscale and RGBA textures

README.md, after:

# Basic GPU Pipeline Example

This project provides simplified examples of a GPU pipeline for educational purposes. It demonstrates the interactions between memory and the vertex shader, tiler, rasterisation and fragment shader pipeline stages and other components commonly found in GPU HW architectures. The repository now contains a 2D triangle example, a minimal 3D cube rendered from a side perspective, and a textured cube example that maps an image (or a randomly generated pattern) to each face, converting grayscale or RGBA textures to RGB as needed.

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.x
- Jupyter Notebook
- NumPy
- Matplotlib

## Installation

1. **Clone the Repository**
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/bvarbanov90/basic-gpu-pipeline-example.git
    ```
    Navigate to the project directory.
    ```bash
    cd basic-gpu-pipeline-example
    ```

2. **Create a Virtual Environment** (Optional)
    ```bash
    python -m venv venv
    ```

    Activate the virtual environment.
    - On Windows:
        ```bash
        .\venv\Scripts\Activate
        ```
    - On macOS and Linux:
        ```bash
        source venv/bin/activate
        ```

3. **Install Dependencies**
    ```bash
    pip install numpy matplotlib
    ```

## Usage

1. **Start Jupyter Notebook**
    ```bash
    jupyter notebook
    ```
    This will start the Jupyter Notebook and open a browser window. Navigate to the directory where you cloned this project.

2. **Open Notebook**
    - In the Jupyter Notebook browser window, click on `basic_2D_GPU_pipeline_example.ipynb` for the 2D triangle pipeline.
    - Open `basic_3D_GPU_pipeline_example.ipynb` to explore the 3D cube example.
    - To see a cube with the same image applied as a texture on all faces, run `textured_cube_example.ipynb`. Place a `texture.jpg` image in the repository root to use your own texture; grayscale or RGBA images are converted to RGB automatically, and if the file is absent a random texture is generated.

3. **Run Notebook**
    - You can run each cell individually by clicking on it and pressing `Shift + Enter`, or run all cells by clicking `Cell > Run All` in the menu.

4. **View Results**
    - The final cell will display the rasterized image generated by the chosen pipeline. You can also view the saved image in your local directory.

## License

This project is licensed under the Apache License 2.0 - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
